workspaces/lightspeed/plugins/lightspeed-backend/README.md, before:

# Lightspeed Backend

This is the lightspeed backend plugin that enables you to interact with any LLM server running a model with OpenAI's API compatibility.

## Getting Started

### Installing the plugin

```bash
yarn add --cwd packages/backend  @red-hat-developer-hub/backstage-plugin-lightspeed-backend
```

### Configuring the Backend

Add the following to your `packages/backend/src/index.ts` file:

```ts title="packages/backend/src/index.ts"
const backend = createBackend();

// Add the following line
backend.add(
  import('@red-hat-developer-hub/backstage-plugin-lightspeed-backend'),
);

backend.start();
```

### Plugin Configurations

Add the following lightspeed configurations into your `app-config.yaml` file:

```yaml
lightspeed:
  servicePort: <portNumber> # Optional - Change the LS service port nubmer. Defaults to 8080.
  systemPrompt: <system prompt> # Optional - Override the default system prompt.
  mcpToken: ${MCP_TOKEN} # Optional - mcp server token, recommand to use an ENV to avoid token exposure
```

#### Permission Framework Support

The Lightspeed Backend plugin has support for the permission framework.

- When [RBAC permission](https://github.com/backstage/community-plugins/tree/main/workspaces/rbac/plugins/rbac-backend#installation) framework is enabled, for non-admin users to access lightspeed backend API, the role associated with your user should have the following permission policies associated with it. Add the following in your permission policies configuration file named `rbac-policy.csv`:

```CSV
p, role:default/team_a, lightspeed.chat.read, read, allow
p, role:default/team_a, lightspeed.chat.create, create, allow
p, role:default/team_a, lightspeed.chat.delete, delete, allow

g, user:default/<your-user-name>, role:default/team_a

```

You can specify the path to this configuration file in your application configuration:

```yaml
permission:
  enabled: true
  rbac:
    policies-csv-file: /some/path/rbac-policy.csv
    policyFileReload: true
```

Commit message:

update to include mcp server name as well
Signed-off-by: Stephanie <yangcao@redhat.com>

workspaces/lightspeed/plugins/lightspeed-backend/README.md, after:

# Lightspeed Backend

This is the lightspeed backend plugin that enables you to interact with any LLM server running a model with OpenAI's API compatibility.

## Getting Started

### Installing the plugin

```bash
yarn add --cwd packages/backend  @red-hat-developer-hub/backstage-plugin-lightspeed-backend
```

### Configuring the Backend

Add the following to your `packages/backend/src/index.ts` file:

```ts title="packages/backend/src/index.ts"
const backend = createBackend();

// Add the following line
backend.add(
  import('@red-hat-developer-hub/backstage-plugin-lightspeed-backend'),
);

backend.start();
```

### Plugin Configurations

Add the following lightspeed configurations into your `app-config.yaml` file:

```yaml
lightspeed:
  servicePort: <portNumber> # Optional - Change the LS service port nubmer. Defaults to 8080.
  systemPrompt: <system prompt> # Optional - Override the default system prompt.
  mcpServers: # Optional - only one mcp server is currently supported
    name: <mcp server name> # must match the name configured in LCS
    token: ${MCP_TOKEN}
```

#### Permission Framework Support

The Lightspeed Backend plugin has support for the permission framework.

- When [RBAC permission](https://github.com/backstage/community-plugins/tree/main/workspaces/rbac/plugins/rbac-backend#installation) framework is enabled, for non-admin users to access lightspeed backend API, the role associated with your user should have the following permission policies associated with it. Add the following in your permission policies configuration file named `rbac-policy.csv`:

```CSV
p, role:default/team_a, lightspeed.chat.read, read, allow
p, role:default/team_a, lightspeed.chat.create, create, allow
p, role:default/team_a, lightspeed.chat.delete, delete, allow

g, user:default/<your-user-name>, role:default/team_a

```

You can specify the path to this configuration file in your application configuration:

```yaml
permission:
  enabled: true
  rbac:
    policies-csv-file: /some/path/rbac-policy.csv
    policyFileReload: true
```
