workspaces/bulk-import/plugins/bulk-import-backend/api-docs/Models/SourceImport.md, before:

# SourceImport
## Properties

| Name | Type | Description | Notes |
|------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------|
| **id** | **String** |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **status** | [**Repository_importStatus**](Repository_importStatus.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **task** | [**Import_task**](Import_task.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **tasks** | [**List**](Import_task.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **catalogEntityName** | **String** | Specified entity name in the catalog. Filled only in response for dry-run import requests. | [optional] [default to null] |
| **lastUpdate** | **Date** |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **errors** | **List** |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **approvalTool** | [**ApprovalTool**](ApprovalTool.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **repository** | [**Repository**](Repository.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **gitlab** | [**Import_gitlab**](Import_gitlab.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **github** | [**Import_github**](Import_github.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **source** | [**Source**](Source.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |

[[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to README]](../README.md)

Commit message:

feat(bulk-import): implement execution orchestrator workflows
Signed-off-by: Oleksandr Andriienko <oandriie@redhat.com>

workspaces/bulk-import/plugins/bulk-import-backend/api-docs/Models/SourceImport.md, after:

# SourceImport
## Properties

| Name | Type | Description | Notes |
|------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------|
| **id** | **String** |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **status** | [**Repository_importStatus**](Repository_importStatus.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **task** | [**Import_task**](Import_task.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **workflow** | [**Import_workflow**](Import_workflow.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **tasks** | [**List**](Import_task.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **workflows** | [**List**](Import_workflow.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **catalogEntityName** | **String** | Specified entity name in the catalog. Filled only in response for dry-run import requests. | [optional] [default to null] |
| **lastUpdate** | **Date** |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **errors** | **List** |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **approvalTool** | [**ApprovalTool**](ApprovalTool.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **repository** | [**Repository**](Repository.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **gitlab** | [**Import_gitlab**](Import_gitlab.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **github** | [**Import_github**](Import_github.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |
| **source** | [**Source**](Source.md) |  | [optional] [default to null] |

[[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to README]](../README.md)
